### Async Console

- There is no specification or set of requirements around how the console methods work -- they are not officially part of JavaScript.

- **It is instead added to JS by the hosting environment.**

- _So, different browsers and JS environments do as they please, which can sometimes lead to confusing behavior._

- In particular, there are some browsers and some conditions that console.log(..) does not actually immediately output what it's given.

- The main reason this may happen is because I/O is a very slow and blocking part of many programs (not just JS). 

- So, it may perform better (from the page/UI perspective) for a browser to handle console I/O asynchronously in the background, without you perhaps even knowing that occurred.

# Node Js

- **Node Js internally uses process.stdout for console.log**

- process.stdout may be synchronous depending on what stream is connected and whether the system is Windows or POSIX (kind of like UNIX)

- Stream means from where we are actually reading our standard input output.

- _If we are reading from file, then console.log will work synchronously on windows and POSIX_

- If we are reading from TTY terminals (old terminals). then console.log will work asynchronous on windows, and synchronous on POSIX

- _If we are reading from pipes and sockets, then console.log will work synchronous on windows and asynchronous on POSIX_

- **Synchronous write does blocks the event loop until the write has completed. This may not be a problem when writing to an interactive terminal session, but consider this particularly careful when production logging to the process output stream. This is why there are _logging libraries_ used in production because the behaviour of console.log may change from time to time**






