### ProtoTypes

- Objects are created by constructor calls via *new* keyword. 
- wkt, classes are the blueprints and objects / instances are the working real life model of those blueprints. 

- Now, this *class based coding is kind of creating copies*. 
- Why I am saying, we create new copies, because let’s say we have the product class, we created new objects out of it, and then in the class we made a change around some behaviour or some property, do you think that change will reflect in an already created object ? And let’s say we made some changes in the new product object, do you think that change will reflect in the class ? Because in languages like C++ and java, the relationship between class and object exist for a split of second and the moment we have our new object with us, there is no relation left between them. 

- Can we say even the inheritance operation involves copying?

*In JS, the copy operation doesn’t exist for these classes and objects. Instead there exist something called as Linking.*

__A constructor call makes an object linked to its own prototype.__

_Prototypes are the mechanism by which JS objects inherit features from one another._
 If you will create a new object inside browser, then we are able to see a Prototype property as well. So if you do, obj. then you will get a list of properties associated with obj, few of them we defined ourselves but other like toLocaleString , isPrototypeof these method we didn’t create. So these are somehow inherited from somewhere. Where they come from ? _Every object in JS has an inbuilt property called it’s prototype. The prototype is itself an object, and it is an object then it will have it’s own prototype. It leads to a chain of prototypes. The chain ends, when we reach a prototype that has null for it’s own prototype._
 When we try to access a property of an object, if the property is present then we access it, but if it is not present then we search for the property in this prototype chain.


```
function Product(n) {
this.name = n;
}
Product.prototype.display = function (msg) {
console.log(this.name, msg);
}
let d = new Product("iphone");
d.display("in stock");

```