# MVC visualise

### View
The main goal of visiting a restaurant is to eat yummy food, but how exactly do you know what food the place is serving and how will you get this food?

Usually the host will walk you to a table and hand you their menu. *The menu will represent our view which gives you, the user, a detailed list of all the food the restaurant serves.* This makes life significantly easier for us because we don’t have to guess what food we can order and we can see exactly what comes with each dish.


### Controller
Okay, so now we’ve had to time to look over the menu and have decided what we want to eat, but how do we communicate with the chef?

This is where our waiter comes in and for our example they will represent our controller. *The waiter will facilitate our request by writing down our order and then bringing it to the chef who will actually prepare the food. In the MVC pattern, the controller is responsible for providing instructions that will tell the model what to build and then take that manipulated data and deliver it to the view.*

For instance, you can have the controller respond with JSON data. You could also have it contain strict instructions for what data can be provided to the model, such as “strict params” which is commonly used in Ruby on Rails.


### Model

After our waiter(controller) has taken our order from the menu(view), they will provide this information to the chef who will cook our food. *The chef represents the last piece of the pattern which is our model. Our chef might be one person but they contain all the knowledge, or logic, to create our order.*

*In the MVC architecture we create models which are responsible for manipulating the data based on instructions provided by the controller. This allows for consistency throughout our application output and will provide an enjoyable user experience.*